---
layout: post
title: "The rest of us"
---

"These right-angled shapes have become really arrogant. They just take up all the space in the city", said one polygon with rounded-corners to another. "A time will come when they will become many more in number than us and takeover the world with their orthogonal ideas". It was true. The rectangles had been subdividing unnaturally. And while it sounded ridiculous to say that rounded-corner figures would become a minority in Shapetown anytime soon, the sight of long rows of highly organized squares and rectangles had started sending a shiver down the diagonals of these polygons. The last congress of the governing council of shapes at the local toolbar had seen tremendous show of force by the righties. While the rounded figures all quarrelled over their petty differences, these sharp shapes all voiced their angle in unison.

This circle of fear went round and round for a while, until the roundies decided that they have had enough. The shape congress launched a census to determine the counts of the different right-angled ones. Ultimately, a massive campaign to drive these outliers, these unnatural shapes, out of Shapetown began. Those that could not be driven out were converted. By the end of the epoch, only the naturals, with well-rounded qualities remained. Them, and the few three-sided ones that did not matter much. Peace prevailed. And it remained as such, forever and ever. Utopia, it appeared, had been achieved in Shapetown.

Nah! Just as the joyous cries of victory died down, the congress met to discuss the credit attribution for the resounding success of the #no-right-angles campaign. The circles argued how they were the most perfect of the lot and so deserved most of the credit, philosophically speaking. The ellipse posited that the circles really gave no direction because they could be oriented any way, and that they were the ones to point the entire shapekind in the right orthogonal directions, figuratively speaking. The rounded-corner polygons conceded to the ellipses' arguments, and cleverly added that natually, they pointed in many more ideological directions than any other shapes, without the obvious lack of orientiation of the circles. This last set was in the majority as they pointed out that in fact, the rest of them were just degenerates from their midst.

The next congress, thus, a new campaign slogan came into being - #down-with-the-ellipses. The circles were next. And when no infinite-sided shapes remained, it was the rounded-corner polygons' turn to feud. The three- and four-sided simpletons were the first ones to go. And when only the corner-radius-5-units, dodecagons survived in power, the canonically oriented fought with the aribtrarily rotated. And so on it went. That state of constant quarrell was the forever and ever that lasted.

What no one noticed this entire time was that each time a campaign rose to champion the majority's cause, there were always the bystanders - the-rest-of-us as they secretly called themselves. They were in every tribe. In every clan. These shapes stoody by queitly as the leaders of their (and other) communities decided what was right for them. They did not always agree with their fuhrers, but what could they do? Their voices were too meak, too small even to matter. In the hot mess of the Shapetown town-square on the Internet, there was no room for tiny voices. Only the follower-rich and the powerful mattered. And if a shape valued their delusion of privacy, there was no obvious path to being heard. It was as though the truism from the literature of those primate descendents - that all animals were equal, some were just more equal than others - held true for the shapekind as well.

But what if they were heard. Would it have mattered to the existence of the diversity of shapes? And would that have been good? "Who knows... may be the leaders were right. May be, the next one to drive out those others will be it.", sighed one of the rest-of-us in hopeful resignation. It was as if the fate of Shapetown, its transformation for the "better" was always one of culling the different other. Such had always been the state of things in Shapetown. Not by anybody's design. Just by the nature of things. And the hero worship of the shapes at large. The city's best in action on our behalf always decided.

And all that is left for the rest-of-us are questions. Questions with no answers. Why do we revere those in power? Why do we shower all manner of privilege upon them? Do they even know what they are doing? Is that what gives them power? And can this ever change? Should it change? Should the fear of the distinct other be moderated away? Or is too fundamental a tenet of the fractal nature of the differences between shapes? That if you zoomed-in enough, one would always see differences.

Perhaps someday a singular, "perfect" 3D shape would come along and have all the 2D ones see themselves as equal. Unite them in their own struggle to survive.
